2019 Roadmap blog post (#228)
ipfs/blog: content/post/78-ipfs-2019-roadmap.md

---
date: 2019-04-04
url: 78-ipfs-2019-roadmap
title: IPFS 2019 Roadmap
author: Molly Mackinlay
---

> In Q4 2018, we undertook a new planning process for the IPFS project to more clearly define our [vision](https://github.com/ipfs/roadmap#ipfs-mission-statement), [goals](https://github.com/ipfs/roadmap#2019-goals-expanded), and plans for the year. Our motivation was to improve coordination between our expanding working groups and to focus our efforts for the year on some larger-scale improvements to the IPFS network around scalability, performance, and usability to unlock the next tiers of adoption and usage. 😇

Reviewer: Broken link:
```suggestion
In Q4 2018, we undertook a new planning process for the IPFS project to more clearly define our [vision](https://github.com/ipfs/roadmap#ipfs-mission-statement), [goals](https://github.com/ipfs/roadmap#2019-goal-expanded), and plans for the year. Our motivation was to improve coordination between our expanding working groups and to focus our efforts for the year on some larger-scale improvements to the IPFS network around scalability, performance, and usability to unlock the next tiers of adoption and usage. 😇
```

To ground our thinking about the next year, we first had to zoom out to the core mission of the IPFS project in the long-term. We take on many efforts and support many groups in our open source community, but it is all driven by the aim to make the internet more accessible, empowering, and useful for many years to come. With much wordsmithing, we condensed this into our first (written) [mission statement](https://github.com/ipfs/roadmap#ipfs-mission-statement)! 👏

> 

Reviewer: As the mission statement is only short, maybe it could be added inline here?

Author: yeah - planning to do that as an image (cause formatting)

> This mission is reflected in our goals for IPFS - what we hope to tangibly achieve in the world. So far, we've identified **SIXTEEN** ranging over the next 5-10 years of work. These include launching the [Interplanetary Web](https://github.com/ipfs/roadmap#-interplanetary-web---mars-2024-d3-e3-i4), making the memx a reality with the [Personal Web](https://github.com/ipfs/roadmap#-personal-web-d3-e4-i2), shapshotting all human knowledge with the [Self-Archiving Web](https://github.com/ipfs/roadmap#-self-archiving-web-d4-e4-i4), and even merging the web and the OS with [WebOS](https://github.com/ipfs/roadmap#-webos-d5-e2-i3) among others. While there are assuredly many that we haven’t explored yet, 16 is a good start - and far more than we could possibly work on this year. Mission "Plan 2019" was underway! 🚀

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This mission is reflected in our goals for IPFS - what we hope to tangibly achieve in the world. So far, we've identified **SIXTEEN** ranging over the next 5-10 years of work. These include launching the [Interplanetary Web](https://github.com/ipfs/roadmap#-interplanetary-web---mars-2024-d3-e3-i4), making the memex a reality with the [Personal Web](https://github.com/ipfs/roadmap#-personal-web-d3-e4-i2), snapshotting all human knowledge with the [Self-Archiving Web](https://github.com/ipfs/roadmap#-self-archiving-web-d4-e4-i4), and even merging the web and the OS with [WebOS](https://github.com/ipfs/roadmap#-webos-d5-e2-i3) among others. While there are assuredly many that we haven’t explored yet, 16 is a good start - and far more than we could possibly work on this year. Mission "Plan 2019" was underway! 🚀
```

Given this realization, we made the hard choice to descope those goals for 2019 and focus our energies on supporting package managers. However, we’d already finalized our Q1 OKRs and much of the prioritized work was still aligned and valuable for our narrowed priority. Therefore, we decided to pause any additional re-planning until the end-of-quarter mark. Not to fear, Q2 brings lots of fresh package-manager-focused improvements built on all of our great Q1 learnings. Curious what the working groups are picking up and how you can help out? Check out the [IPFS Q2 OKRs](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1YSeyWqXh3ImanRrTkYQHHkCofiORn68bYqM_KTLBlsA/edit) and associated planning issues [here](https://github.com/ipfs/team-mgmt/issues/902). 🤗

> 

Reviewer: I updated the index in the Readme tab of https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1YSeyWqXh3ImanRrTkYQHHkCofiORn68bYqM_KTLBlsA/edit#gid=1681757723 to include package managers
